Hello everyone in this lesson we will learn about building up real content for one of our pages without
further ado let's just jump right into the action.
All right.
So this is my public facing WordPress Web site and if I use my navigation to navigate to the About Us
page we can see that.
Currently this page only has a tiny bit of placeholder content.
So in this lesson we are going to add additional content to the page and along the way we will learn
a few new skills.
OK so if I want to make changes to this page if I want to edit this page assuming I'm logged into WordPress
as the admin of the website I can just look up in the top bar of the page and make use of this edit
page button.
And that will take me directly to the edit screen for that page.
So now I'm free to begin changing this content.
Now obviously you're free to type out whatever content you would like.
But here's what I'm going to type this business is our pride and joy.
We've been around for a long time.
OK.
Now in the real world if this page was about you hopefully you would have more to say about yourself
than just these two sentences.
But for the purposes of keeping this video rolling along at a nice tempo I'm not going to type any other
content manually.
Instead I'm just going to paste in a bit of filler Laura emit some text.
OK so imagine you have your intro paragraph here and then maybe you want to add a YouTube video to your
page so maybe we want the next piece of content here to be a video.
So as an example let me show you how relatively simple it is to add videos from YouTube to your page.
Let me switch over to another browser window where I've navigated to YouTube dot com.
Then just go ahead and find the video that you want to include on your page.
OK so begin watching the video that you're interested in.
And then right below the video player you will see a bit of information about the channel who owns the
video.
And then right below that content you'll see a share button.
OK.
So let me scroll down just a little bit and then I'm going to click this share button.
Once I click that it gives me a few new options to choose from I can choose between share embed or e-mail
we are interested in embed.
We want to embed this video into our WordPress page so as soon as I click on embed YouTube gives me
this bit of code.
Now with this code highlighted go ahead and copy it into your clipboard then switch back to your Wordpress
admin area.
And as you might have guessed Now we just want to paste that code into our content here.
However before we go ahead and paste in that code first we want to pay attention to these two tabs here.
See these two tabs here that read visual and text.
If I click on visual nothing happens because we're already using the visual editor or the visual mode
of wordpress.
Now 99 percent of the time visual mode is great.
It makes it very simple to create content here but in this case we want to paste in that bit of code
that YouTube gave us.
So we want to switch over to the text view or the text mode.
So let's click that.
OK.
And now let's place our cursor down here and now we're safe to paste in that code that YouTube gave
us.
So this is the code that YouTube gave us.
I'm going to add a new space or empty line in between it and our paragraph.
OK and with this code in place now I can switch back to the visual mode.
So just click on visual again and there we have it.
So there's the video added to our content.
Let's test it out let's take it for a spin.
So let's go ahead and click this blue update button.
And now we see this success message page updated and we can use this view page link to immediately view
the public facing page.
OK so this is what the world will see when they come to our Web site and click on About Us.
Pretty cool.
So now if anyone comes to this page and clicks on this video it will begin playing.
Now before we change gears and learn how to add our own photographs to this page I do want to show you
one last YouTube tip.
So currently Notice how this YouTube video has the title of the video right here.
Maybe we don't want that.
So if we go back to YouTube we can actually customize what YouTube gives us for the video player.
So check this out after you click the share button.
And then the embed button.
And again remember I'm currently viewing YouTube dot com.
Here's the code that YouTube gives you.
But if you scroll down a little bit you'll see this show more option.
And if I click that YouTube gives us new options we can use to customize the video experience that it
gives us.
So here we see we can change the size of the video player.
So maybe instead of 60 I want 640 So that will make the video player a little bit larger on our page.
And then you can also customize all of these settings.
So I usually uncheck this first one shows suggested videos when the video finishes I uncheck that because
I don't want to advertise for other people's videos when visitors of my website have finished watching
the video.
OK.
And if for some reason you don't want the visitors of your website to be able to rewind or fast forward
in the video you can uncheck this option.
And if you don't want the title of the video to show up in the top left corner you can uncheck this
option.
OK.
And now YouTube has given us a new bit of code here that takes all of our option choices into account.
So again just go ahead and copy this new code into your clipboard.
Go back to WordPress.
This is the public facing Web site.
So let me use this page button to go back to the admin side of things here we can see the video because
we are in visual mode.
But let's switch over to text mode.
Here's the bit of code that creates the YouTube video.
So just delete that and then paste in the brand new code.
YouTube gave us out of space here.
Go ahead and click the update button.
Page was successfully updated.
And then we can use this link to switch back to the public facing Web site.
And now you can see the video is a little bit larger.
And we don't have that annoying title right about here.
OK.
So that was a bit of a tangent on working with YouTube videos but hopefully you found it useful.
Next let's change gears and let's add a bit of extra text below the video.
And then let's also work on adding in our own photograph to the page.
So if I want to edit the page again I'm going to use this edit page link up in the top bar.
Currently we are using the text mode.
Why don't we go ahead and switch back to the visual mode.
OK.
And we wanted to add a bit of text below the video.
So I'm just going to click to the right of the video to place my cursor there and then hit enter or
return.
And now we can start typing again.
Now instead of typing out a big paragraph I'm just going to paste in a bit of dummy text.
Feel free to add whatever text you would like.
Maybe pause this lesson for a moment.
As you add in your own text.
But next what we want to do is learn how to add our own photograph maybe to the right side of the text.
So right about here.
So let me show you how I would achieve that.
I would place my cursor at the beginning of this text so right before the first word here.
And then towards the top left of the screen noticed this ad media button go ahead and click that add
media currently in my example here.
Media Library is selected media library consists of all the files you've uploaded to WordPress in the
past.
So in my case all that I have in my library is the logo file that I'm using up in the header.
And I don't want to use that in this instance.
I want to upload a new photograph.
So go ahead and click on this upload files but then choose this select files button and now it's up
to you to find a photograph on your computer's hard drive that you want to use.
So in my case I have a folder on my desktop named assets and I have this photo of myself named Brad
photo that I'm going to use
OK.
And now along the right hand side of the screen in this area we can customize how that image gets added
to the page.
So for example we can control its size and its placement.
So down here we see a line.
So maybe I want to align it to the right.
So it kind of floats to the right of all of the text that it's near.
So I can choose right.
I can choose a different size.
But for now I'm going to leave it set to Medium and then click insert into page OK.
And there we see it.
Now next what if you want to add a caption to the photograph so maybe you want to add a bit of text
right here right below the photo that pertains to the photo.
Well you can always just click on the photo that you want to edit or work with.
And then once I do that noticed this little pop up menu appears.
Go ahead and use this pencil icon here.
So if I hover over it it says edit OK.
And from the screen you can customize the alignment of the photo and the size of the photo.
But more importantly we see this first field is caption So I will type.
This is a cheesy photo of myself and this alternative text field is also very important.
So if for some reason the file fails to load for someone maybe their internet connection goes out for
a second or the server is acting funny or if someone comes to our website and they are visually impaired
and their computer has software that will read out loud the content of the page to them.
Well in that case they can't see the image.
But whatever we type here they will hear.
So I would just say photo of Brad.
This alternative text field can also help boost your search engine optimization rankings.
So be sure to always fill out this field.
OK then I'm going to click this update button.
Here we can see the caption.
And for now I'm happy with this content.
So I'm going to use this blue update button to save my progress.
Here we see this page successfully updated message and if I click View page this is what the general
public will see.
Looks good.
OK so we just successfully added a photograph to the page.
Now let's change gears and talk about something else.
So if I scroll back up to the top of this page we can see that here is the title of this particular
page about us and it uses a nice large font size because it's the title.
But then we noticed that the rest of our content uses a very uniform standard font size.
So the question becomes what if we want to have subheadings.
So for example maybe I want to have my main page title here and then I want to have a subtitle or sub
headline right here that reads about the company and then maybe down here before this text.
Maybe I want to have another subheading right here that reads about me.
OK.
So basically the question at hand here is how do you use different font sizes.
Let me show you how I would handle that.
So if I want to edit this page again I can just use this edit page link up on the top bar.
OK.
And this field is what controls the main title of the page each page or post can only have one title.
But what if we want to have subtitles or some headlines down here in our content.
So check this out.
If I create a new line of text type anything I want by default.
Each new line of text is just considered a standard paragraph.
So WordPress considers this a paragraph WordPress considers this a paragraph.
You get the idea but if I want this piece of text to be treated as a headline I can just highlight it
and then using this menu see this menu that currently says paragraph if I click on that I can choose
between these different heading options.
So if I choose heading one that's going to use a fairly large font size heading to maybe a little bit
smaller you get the idea.
Adding three is even smaller if you've ever used word processing software.
These heading options are these formatting options should be a bit familiar.
OK so feel free to use whatever heading level you feel is appropriate.
I will use heading level 3 and then you can just say about the company or whatever text you want to
use and then maybe down here right after the YouTube video I will say about me.
OK so again by default a new line of text is considered a paragraph and then I can just highlight it
use this menu and select headings 3.
This looks good to me so I will use the blue update button.
And let's go see how this content looks on the public facing portion of our Web site.
OK.
So here's one of the new subheadings we just created.
If I scroll down a bit here's the other one looks good.
And that's actually going to bring this lesson to a close.
I know that we covered a lot in this lesson and we moved at a fairly fast pace.
So it's OK if you didn't.
One hundred percent absorb everything.
If that's the case if you're feeling like this lesson went a little too fast why don't you try this.
Why don't you go and create a brand new page in wordpress.
There are a few different ways you can do that.
If you're currently viewing the public facing portion of your website just look in this top bar for
the button that reads new right about here.
And if you hover over it within this menu you can click on page.
That's one way to create a new page or you can use this link to just go back to your dashboard in general
and then in the admin side bar look for pages and then you can click add new.
All right now if you feel like this lesson went a little bit too fast why don't you just watch this
lesson a second time and apply the techniques you see to this new page.
WordPress doesn't limit how many pages we can create.
Practicing again and again and experimenting is the best way to move forward.
Now in our next lesson we will learn how to create sub pages.
More importantly I guess we will learn what a sub page even is and we will also learn how to create
dropdown menus within our main navigation link menu.
And finally we'll also learn how to add links to our other pages within our paragraphs of content.
It should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.